hey coach able here they have a body
experts come on lift my colleague Kevin
the Machine moist and we're talking
diets had this coach month I guess you
can consider this a part to coach Paul
talked a little bit about calorie spikes
this is foreign probably the people who
aren't part of the able bodies machine
but for people who are they know what we
mean by calorie spikes but to give the
viewers on an idea here we were a few
months back three days away from guess
closing appearance that you had yeah and
we went out for dinner and I remember
you having Fred Flintstone brontosaurus
prime rib and two loaves of bread it had
two appetizers you had the potato loaded
two desserts were both had and you were
three days yes closing were most people
who would be panicked about even being
near food like that and here you were
three days before an appearance on stage
with people are taking your picture and
what not having what we call a spike
meal and you want to let people in on
how that works and how you went about
that yeah and not only was that a guest
post three days later but I also had the
natural universe two weeks after that
yes so you were competing to competing
in two and a half weeks as well so
that's pretty close to contest and here
you are with cheesecake and prime rib
and bread and butter and not supposed to
work
well that's all part of the plan and
anybody that's that's watched your cycle
Diane BBD has a little bit more insight
into that but that part of the plan
where the calories that you're taking in
on a regular basis are obviously nowhere
near that and somebody that would look
at that and say well the way that he's
eating there that that obviously can't
work well it does work because of its in
a whole context of a plant about the
calories are set at a certain level and
you follow that and then when your body
gets to that point I don't want to get
one winded on in on that point but it
gets to a point where that type of a
spike is going to be a huge benefit and
not a debt so calories hiking works in
the right metabolic environments
absolutely mental break metabolic
context now you yourself getting ready
for a show how do you know not to be
biting your nails that it's okay to go
for dinner with a friend that close to
you know three days when we guess
closing two weeks from a contest how do
you know when it's time to refute that
well I guess just comes from experience
like I've been doing this I'm competing
for over 25 years now and what you use
do you go by the weight scale oh I see
you go boy
what's going no the weight scale really
has nothing to do with it although it
can be a factor like after your one year
when you're getting to that point where
your mole and you're ready for a refeed
obviously your wing is going to be down
if you're glad you but if it is
certainly look later than stuff like
that so the scale is a tool but you can
use but it really comes down to reading
your body's biofeedback the intensity in
the gym starts to suffer you get that
feeling of just overall general lethargy
if you want to call it that and so lack
of energy has to suffer Frank
deprivation to and the mirror of course
yeah and that's how you lookin that you
look in the mirror and you cannot and
I've seen people get screwed up by that
too because I look in the mirror and you
actually tend to get looking softer
because the muscles are less be plated
so then people start freaking out and
think indicud account is getting exactly
so they're going the wrong way where
they should be spiking or have somebody
like you or me looking at them and
telling them where despite right there
going the opposite way and they start
freaking out doing more cardio doing
cutting the calories further in to be a
woman thing or a bad time there the
other side of that coin know is people
who who think mentally they need a spike
because they want one because they're
hungry
ready so they're not using the mirror
they're not using your bio feedback and
they're just sort of in want of a meal
yeah it's a whole different ball yeah
and that's what I say all the time to
people too is it's not about your spike
meals or cheat meals if you want to call
them that hello don't consider cheat
meals if they're part of the plan you're
not cheating right true but the leader
you are the more your body can use these
things and needs to use these things if
you're a keeps your metabolism jacket if
you're 15 20 pounds away from your
montessori guess what you're probably
don't need to be displayed to you about
that we've had a lot of spike yes that's
why your 15th exactly but you start
getting down into where you're actually
near competition shape when I when I'm
rate within a month of competition shape
I'm usually pretty much Raven around the
weight i'm going to be i can take a
spike meal of anything i want every
three days with no bad so we're talking
diet strategy here for those interested
in how you get ripped and high you stay
ripped and this has been a special coach
I'm obsession with being able body
experts